Calculus,

Derivative,
General idea of derivative is a measure of how sensitive a function is to a tiny change in its input. 
images: 1-1

This ratio is the slope of a line passing through that two points of a curve, well as that tiny change in input approaches 0 and interval of those two points approaches each other.
images: 1-2

Slope of the line connecting the two points approaches the slope of the line tangent to a curve at a single point t which we were looking at.
images: 1-3

Sum, Product, Chaing Rule
images: 1-4, 1-5, 1-6, 1-7

Implicit Differentiation,
This curve is not the curve like other tangent problems so we cannot take a simple derivative like asking about the size of a tiny nudge to the output of a function cause by some tiny nudge to its input. Here if you notice keenly x is not an input and y is not an output they were just an interdependent variables related by some equation. This is called the implicit curve. It's just a set of values to satisfy some property written in terms of two variables x and y. for computing derivative from this equation, need to take derivative on both sides of equation and compute dy/dx. this process is called implicit differentiation. 
images: 2-1, 2-2

To understand this geometrically, think of ladder sliding from a wall.
images: 2-3

Multivariable calculus,
Functions with multiple inputs and how they change as you tweak those inputs.

Lhopitals rule,
Whatever you comes across some expression that seems to equal 0/0 when you plugin some input here h = 0, then just take the derivative of top and bottom expressions and plug it in the same trouble input. this process is called lhopitals rule.
images: 3-1

Integrals,	
It is just opposite to derivatives and also called antiderivatives. this is the most commonly used tool for computing the area under the curve. Directly you can't compute the area under this curve since we got this curve by repeatedly taking derivative of some function so in order to compute the area under any curve we need to have the original function. there are actually infinitely many antiderivatives of a given function since you can always add some constant without affecting the derivative.
images: 4-1, 4-2

Antiderivative between the lower and upper bound implicitly adds up all the thin area rectangles of the curve.
images: 4-3

Higher order derivatives,
Second order derivative is simply the rate of change of the slopes btw df1 and df2.
images: 5-1, 5-2

Taylor series, 
They are one of the most powerful tools which maths has offered to approximate the functions. the study of taylor series is largely about taking non polynomial functions and finding polynomials to approximate them near some input. the motive here is that polynomials tend to be much easier to deal than other functions like cosine, sine. Polynomial functions are easier to compute and easier to take derivative, easier to take integrate.
images: 6-1, 6-2

Translates the derivative information at a single point to approximation information around that point
images: 6-3

Also there was some cases like this below, where adding more terms of the series doesn't approach anything
images: 6-4

Infinite series converges to the number e
images: 6-5

This is how the higher order polynomials terms helps to approximate the curve
images: 6-6